Yeah.
Um, I know we probably have several
online as well, so welcome online
if you're watching us online.
Um, I have got the opportunity to preach
a couple of new year's messages in the
past couple of years at past churches.
And it's always that question.
Hey, first message.
In January.
What are you gonna preach on?
It's like, eh, we're gonna
preach on something to do with
setting, you know, New year's
resolutions or something like that.
And so I haven't changed.
I'm going to continue on
that theme because I think
it's good as we think about.
And I think the reason why is, if
any anybody's like me is I like
to start things on the first or
I like to start things on Monday.
I like to start things in the new year.
It's just something in my mind
that may not work for you.
You may be a Wednesday guy on
Wednesday, I'm starting on something.
And you're crazy if that's you,
because Mondays are the day.
Okay.
Mondays are the day or
new year's or the day.
So it's a new year.
So most of your probably.
How's my life going to be different
this year than it was last year.
And so because of that, I began to
just seek the word and say, Hey,
what are some things that as a begin
to, to look at, what are some things
that we can learn when it comes to
setting godly new year's resolutions?
And I kind of found some things from Paul
today that we'll kind of walk through.
So we'll be in second
Corinthians chapter five.
Um, starting in verse nine.
Um, if you don't have a copy of
God's word, it'd be on the screen
as well as you can grab a Bible
in the back on your way out.
Um, or you can download the,
um, YouVersion Bible app.
It's one of my favorite apps.
I always mentioned the app
because Hey, new year's resolution
may be, get in the word.
And the greatest way you can do
that is take it wherever you go.
So the YouVersion Bible app could
be the greatest thing to download,
um, and begin start plans.
Look for me on there and you can friend
me and then we can do plans together.
That may be a way to kind
of help you in the new year.
So I want to start off
asking this question.
Um, what.
Well, let's start with last year.
What were some of the new year's
resolutions you made last year?
The same ones you made this year.
Okay.
Did anybody like fulfill one of
their new year's resolutions?
Anybody?
Remember what there?
Okay.
Hey, what'd you fulfill you were you
weren't going to work out more or
you were, and did you work out more?
Hey, success, there's one person.
Anybody else successful in 2021 as
something that you had a resolution for?
Okay, let's move to 20, 22.
What are some new year's resolutions
that you've set today or maybe yesterday
or the day before that, whatever, um,
that you're wanting to fulfill in 2026?
What are some new things that you
guys, you just want to be surprised?
That means you're never failing
and you're always successful.
Right?
That's good.
Okay.
Any anybody else?
What's some new ones.
Maybe nobody's even said anything.
Anybody spend more time with family.
There you go.
Okay.
What was the other one?
I heard somebody else talk.
You didn't set any, okay.
Yeah.
Well, when, when they, when they
say around the 21st of January is
when everybody's gym membership,
like they stop showing up.
Yes, yes.
We all tend to.
So let me ask this question then.
How many of y'all would
like to be successful?
At actually following through on
new year's resolutions, anybody.
Okay, good.
Most of us are on the same page and here's
what I'll encourage you with is it doesn't
take every new year's to set resolutions.
Um, so I want to kind of explain.
So what's a resolution is a firm
decision to do or not do something.
A resolution is a firm decision
to do or not do something.
So those can be set every
day or like may Mondays.
So don't wait until next year.
If you set something today
and you fell in 21, Don't wait
until next year to do it again.
It really just takes the next day.
And this is one of the
things as me and Brittany.
We have been now I'm dating or
married for now almost 20 years.
And we have went through a lot
of different diets and weight
loss challenges in our life.
And here's the one thing that we've
learned with each one of those.
The only way we'll be successful
is not after you've went
out and ate a cheeseburger.
Right.
And you're like, oh, I failed.
It's not giving up.
It's just starting the next.
Right.
It's the next mill I'm back on track or
the next day I'm back on track, right?
For most of us when we fell resolutions
or when we fell, whatever thing
we planned out, we give up and see
that's where we all tend to be with
resolutions, but we should not give up.
We should be motivated to start again
and to start again and start again.
So today's message is going to really talk
about new beginnings and how we start.
New beginnings consistently
and things like that.
So I started just thinking through
some resolutions, um, and the only
way that we would be successful
at those, this is something that
would motivate us to accomplish it.
Right.
And so, uh, for me back whenever I
was 23 ish, we had our first daughter
Peyton and I was 267 pounds decided
to go to the doctor at age 23.
And they said, Hey, you need
some cholesterol medicine.
And like at 23, no way I was
motivated to not get on medicine.
So.
It was middle of the
summer in Oklahoma, 105.
I started running at noon.
Okay.
At noon, which means I wanted to
have a heat stroke, but my goal was,
I was so fed up and motivated that
I started running and I could only.
A half a block.
And then that turned
into six months later.
I had lost somewhere between
60 pounds and I think it was
around eight or nine months.
I'd lost 87 pounds.
Um, I changed my diet.
I changed my workout habits.
I started running and my life changed
and yes, I've fluctuated and I'm
working on going back down again.
But I would say this, I was motivated
by being aged 23, a new father that
I wouldn't be around for my daughter.
So it motivated me.
Right.
So that works for.
Um, for some of you, you want to
be motivated to read more books
because you love knowledge or
you'd love to have that time alone.
Right?
So you're, what are you motivated by?
What is it that's going to draw
you into that for some of you
again, and we're seeing it today.
Nobody's dedication is to be a new year.
Well, you guys are your new year's
resolutions probably do attend church.
Great success.
Number one.
But why are you motivated
to attend church?
Or why are you motivated to grow
in your relationship with Christ?
It's probably because you see value in it.
And so what we're going
to look at today is.
Is as we set godly resolutions,
we'll see, Paul in this text was
motivated in his ability to have a
good reputation, um, by three things
by three things, one, the fear of the.
The love of Christ and
the commission of Christ.
And so for him, and just kind of
give you a bit of background on this.
Paul had been accused of using his
ministry for personal gain and also
Paul's, um, Paul was not very wealthy.
Um, but he, he, he actually was like
a tentmaker and he wasn't very tall
and he wasn't good at his speech and
people kind of criticized him in that.
And so these people that he's
writing to had actually given.
Criticisms, because he was trying to
kind of use, utilize his ministry to get
a game because there was these guys who
actually look the outward part that we're
trying to sway people over to their side,
basically, and to stop following Paul.
And so Paul was like,
Hey, look at my life.
My life is, uh, basically, uh, its
conduct can prove that it's worthy and,
uh, he begins to share his current.
It's worthy because of these three
things, the fear of the Lord, the love
of Christ and the commission of Christ.
And so as I began to look into
this and I think we'll look at
this together, we'll be able to
be motivated by those same things.
Right.
And I'll just encourage you in
this, when it comes to new year's
resolutions or any kind of resolution.
Um, I think the greatest way to fulfill
it is, is, is four things, right.
Um, and I think I've taught on this
before, but there's four things.
Number one, when it comes to a
resolution or a live change, number
one, Recognize the need for it.
So once you recognize the need for
it too, it's what do you do about it?
So for me, if it's losing weight, it's
I need to change my eating habits.
I need to change my exercise.
So that's number two, but the third
and fourth ones, the ones that we
typically avoid, we know the issue.
We know what to do, but we refuse to
put a timeline when to start it and we
refuse to invite accountability into it.
We refuse to invite accountability
into it, which means this.
If we fell, nobody knows.
But when we have somebody that's
motivating or encouraging us,
we're more likely to be successful.
So here's another thing when it comes
to resolutions, set them together.
Invite people into the process in this.
So let's read this text second
Corinthians five, starting in verse nine.
And it says, therefore, whether we are at
home or a way we make it, our aim to be
pleasing to him for, we must all appear
before the judgment seat of Christ so
that each may be repaid for what he has
done in the body, whether good or evil.
And therefore, since we know the
fear of the Lord, we try to persuade.
What are we, or what
we are is plain to God.
And I hope also is plain
to your conscience.
We are not committing ourselves to you
again, but giving you an opportunity to be
proud of us so that you may have a reply
for those who take pride in our outward
appearance, rather than have the heart
for, if we are out of our mind, it is for.
If we are in our right mind, it
is for you for the love of Christ.
Compels us.
Since we have reached this
conclusion, if one died for all,
then all died and he died for all.
So that those who live should no
longer live for themselves, but for
the one who died for them and was.
From now on, then we do not know
anyone from a worldly perspective,
even if we have known Christ
from a really perspective, yet we
no longer know him in this way.
Therefore, if anyone is in
Christ, he is a new creation.
The oldest passed away
and see the new hectic.
Everything is from God who has
reconciled us for himself through
Christ and has given us the ministry
of reconciliation that is in Christ.
God was reconciling the world
to himself, not counting
their trespasses against them.
And he has committed the
message of reconciliation to us.
Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ
since God is making his appeal through us.
We plead on Christ's behalf
to be reconciled to God.
He has made the one who did
not know sin to be sin for.
So they in him, we might become
the righteousness of God.
So let's pray, Lord Jesus.
We just pray Lord that your word.
Um, Lord pierces, our hearts and
our lives Lord, and continues to
guide and direct our lives and
the way that you would have us go.
And so Lord, we just pray
this in your heavenly name.
Amen.
So let me kind of catch you up
on the first couple of verses.
Why is Paul speaking about, um,
therefore, whether we are at home.
Or a way we make it our
aim to pleasing him.
And he had to actually just got
done talking about, um, wanting to
be present with the Lord and absent
from the body and how we desire that.
So I don't know about you guys over
the last couple of years, there's
been some moments where I've wanted
to be absent from this body and
present with the Lord because we know.
Presence with the Lord is peace.
You know, it's, it's safety, it's comfort.
It's no pain, no tears, none of that.
And so there's been those moments
where I can understand that same thing,
but what Paul's basically getting
to is at this point, whether you're
absent from this body and present
with the Lord or whether you're.
Today in this earth, we need
to be pleasing to the Lord.
We need to be pleasing to the Lord.
And, um, I know this at times
we wonder what does it mean
to be pleasing to the Lord?
And so, um, I wanted to ask that question.
What do you believe?
The reason that we should live in
such a way that pleases the Lord?
Why should we live in such a way
that, that basically it pleases.
Because he, what he did
for us on the cross.
And Paul will even explain that
even further, as, as we look at
this, he says not only what he
did for us on the cross, but also.
What is coming for us and we'll see
this in verse 10, where he says this,
he says for, we must appear before the
judgment seat of Christ so that each
of us may be repaid for what we have
done in the body, whether good or evil.
And so we make it our aim to please guy,
because of the judgment that's coming.
This are our surgeon
studying about this judgment.
And so there's actually two types
of judgments that are coming.
You'll hear one that's called the
white throne judgment, which is
the judgment for those who have not
accepted Christ, that will stand before.
And be repaid for the life that they
lived, basically a sinful life, right.
Separation from God forever.
But this judgment is actually
a different judgment.
He's actually speaking to believers, those
who will stand before God and be able to
lay down their works and say, Hey God,
based upon my commitment, my relationship
with you, here's how I've lived and
will be rewarded based upon that.
And I don't know about you guys as, as a
kid, um, as, even as an adult, sometimes I
tend to like rewards anybody like rewards.
I mean, especially a little bit.
I know I can't have it.
Sorry.
I can't have any of those anymore.
It's new years, right?
It's the resolution.
No little Debbies.
Um, but I like rewards and I
also started thinking about this.
I also like to see people pleased with the
activity in which I live or how I live.
Is anybody ever liked that?
Where you, especially as a teacher's
pet, you want to be the one that
they're like, oh, great job.
Good job listening.
I don't know if anybody's like that.
Right.
I'll give you an adult.
I like doing things around the
house where Brittany is going to
actually notice and should be like,
oh honey, thanks for doing that.
Right.
There's something inside me that
enjoys receiving a compliment or
a reward, words of affirmation.
Right.
That could be your love language.
So as we look at this, we see,
um, Paul is saying we should make
it our aim to please God, because
one day we'll stand before him.
Basically giving back to him, all
the things that we did for him and
he'll, we'll receive a reward for him.
And I started thinking about this.
It's interesting, as we begin to think
about this judgment is for those who
have given your life to Christ, what
should motivate you to set godly
resolutions this year so that you live
in such a way that pleases the Lord?
What should motivate you?
Well, what should motivate you
is giving praise and honor back
to the one who as Brittany.
Died for you, gave you a new life.
And so I think about this over and
over again is how we can be motivated.
And if you guys remember me kind
of teaching on this before is
what's the difference between
motivation and inspiration.
This is a church, right?
We're inspiring hope
church, but motivation is an
outward basically drawing.
So this, you guys go to work because
you know, you're going to get paid.
So you have an outward motivation, but
inspiration is an inward motivation.
Right.
It's an inward inspiration.
It means drawing out of you.
What's already inside of you.
So let me go back to this.
It, Paul speaking directly to believers at
this moment, he's speaking to us and he's
saying, Hey, whatever you do, whatever
you are basically sending resolutions this
year to do may be pleasing to the Lord.
What's your motivation?
What's your inspiration.
It's too.
Be pleasing to the Lord and know
that at the end of your life,
you'll receive a reward for what
you've done, what you've done.
And so I know, um, again, it's, it's,
it's we think, well, why should we
be motivated to do some of these
things, but it is because of what
God has done for us, um, to be molded
for made it motivated for that.
So let's look at verses 11 through
13, where it says this in 11, it
says, therefore, since we know the
fear of the Lord, we try to persuade.
And so I stopped there and
started thinking about this.
If we know the fear of the Lord, we
know number one, if you know Christ,
the fear of the Lord is, is not
something that scares me, but I look
at it as something as authority.
And so anybody ever have
parents that, that punish them.
Okay.
Anybody ever had parents that would
tell you that this is going to
hurt me worse than it hurts you.
Okay.
Anybody now as a parent ever
said that to your child.
Okay.
Why.
Because you desire for your kids
to respect you and you punish
them because they usually aren't
respecting your authority.
So you want your kids to have a
healthy fear of you, your authority,
but it's actually truly love.
Isn't it it's truly love in which
you're trying to show your child.
And so, as we look at this, we are
motivated, not just because of ourselves
wanting to receive a reward, we're
motivated because we want others.
Right?
We want to persuade others.
To experience God's love and really
his purpose for them to be saved.
And so he goes on and says, what are we,
uh, us is what we are is plain to God.
And hope is also plain to your conscience.
We're not committing ourselves to
you again, or giving you opportunity
to be proud of us so that you may.
Have a reply for those who take
pride in their outward appearance
rather than their heart.
And again, he's speaking to those
who are trying to do the outward
appearance and say, Hey, follow
us rather than following Paul.
And so Paul is kind of
speaking directly to them.
Um, but he says for if we are
out of our mind, it is for God.
And if we're in our right
mind, it is for you.
And, um, and so as he talks about this,
for someone who doesn't know Christ.
Or hasn't given their life to him.
They don't know about the judgment
that's coming to them again.
This is the second judgment.
When we think about this, the second
judgment that's coming to them.
And so we should be persuaded
to tell other people about that.
And then I started thinking with,
with Paul here, he understands
the seriousness of him living his
life out pure and above reproach.
And that's why he didn't fear judgment.
But for those of us, um,
Who may fear judgment.
And what I mean by that is we may fear
what comes to us at the end of our lives.
Or maybe we fear that for other
people, how do we respond?
And we should be motivated again,
when we think about this, how do we
get motivated to actually set godly
resolutions has, because we understand
the fear of the Lord and we're persuaded
to make sure that other people know.
So to make a godly resolution is to
say, Hey God, I don't just want to be.
Um, and that's a great one go for it,
but I want to be so persuaded that
others know, not only that it can,
we understand the fear, but that fear
is really an understanding of who God
is and his authority in your life,
and really, even more so the love
that he gives us in his life as well.
And I think about this each day, as
a believer, when he talks about we're
going to receive rewards, right.
Or we will not receive a
rewards based on how we lived.
We'll be held accountable to how we live.
And, uh, I think that's something
that is challenging to me that
I'm going to be held accountable.
Right.
Too many times.
I hear too many people say this
well, I've given my life to Christ.
You ask somebody to say this
question, Hey, do you have
a relationship with Jesus?
You have given my life to Christ.
Yeah.
So, so what's life look like right now?
Oh, no, not much.
I mean, I'm just waiting for heaven
and it's like, do you, do you know,
like the rest of your life, you're
held accountable to how you live.
Like shouldn't, you want to
live it for the glory of God.
And for again, when we, as we talked
about earlier, um, so that others may
know him, um, and sometimes we miss that.
So we're going to be held
accountable as an unbeliever, right?
If we don't know Christ or as a believer.
So if you wonder, um, as a believer,
should I care how I live in life?
Absolutely.
And I heard this statement.
It actually rang true.
Really?
To me heard the statement
from an unbeliever.
He said this, I want to
be a zealous for God.
As I was for the devil.
So he wants to be a zealous for
God as he was for the devil.
I think about my life before Christ.
I was pretty gung ho about my life
before Christ and the moment I gave
my life to Christ, I want it to be
just as zealous the opposite way.
So I started doing things that were fun.
I started doing things that were
encouraging, things that were basically
life-changing in just a positive.
And I just, again, that's a challenge
for us, as we say, godly resolutions.
Do you realize that that
your life is that important?
Not only for yourself, but for
someone else, for someone else.
And I started thinking about this,
someone is waiting for you on the other
side of your godly resolution, right.
And your success and accomplishing it.
And so luckily when you
think about accomplished.
Godly resolutions is you're
not on your own, right?
This is where the body of
Christ is here to help you.
This is where the spirit of God
promises to guide and direct you in it.
So what should motivate us and guide
us to make resolutions this year?
Number one is the fear of the Lord, right?
The judgment that we'll receive
at the end of our lives, whether
what we've done good or bad.
Um, or as an unbeliever, um, obviously
not coming in our life stem, but then the
second one, and this is the one I think
that just reminds me more and more as we
should be motivated by the love of Christ.
And this is verse 14, it says for
the love of Christ compels us.
Since we have reached this conclusion,
if one died for all, then all died
and if all died or if he died for all.
So that those who live should no
longer live for themselves, but the
one who died for them was raised
and that gets really confused.
And we'll kind of break that down.
How does love and fear work together.
He has ever think about that.
How does love and fear work together?
And I started thinking back to
that example about our parents.
It's, it's important to have a
healthy fear of our parents, meaning
they're respecting their authority.
But their love is just as important.
So that can come from a positive
direction where they work together.
And so the love of Christ
motivates us right?
Based on what he did on the cross in
John first, John four 19 says this we'd
love him because he first loved us.
So we're compelled to make godly
resolutions because God first loved
us and he gives us this new life.
And so I talked about this being a
message of new beginnings, new beginnings.
Um, it's a new life and it's a new year.
It's an opportunity to be
a new person in Christ.
And that may be, I've already
given my life to Christ 10 years
ago, but you can be new today.
Use it to kind of say, Hey,
20, 21 was not my best life.
I did not live up to the standards.
Maybe I should have, but it's
a new day and it's a new year
and it's a new opportunity.
And what motivates you?
Not only the fear of God, but the
love of Christ, the love of Christ.
And I always think about this as well.
And I, and you guys hear me say
this, this is, I spend a lot of time
just thinking through these things.
How many of y'all when you see somebody
wearing either, um, their, their military
gear or, uh, you know, veterans hat,
do you ever stop and say, thank you
for your service, anybody do that?
I tend to do that more and more.
Um, and the reason why is I
respect their willingness to
sacrifice their lives for our.
Well, why do we do that?
Well, because we recognize the
importance of what they do.
Jesus sacrificed his life so
that you would be free from sin
and live in eternity with him.
I'm compelled by his love to be thankful
and to make commitments this year to
live a life that's honoring to him.
Right.
That's honoring.
And so here's what Paul describes and
just kind of walk through this first 14.
Again, he says this, he says for
the love of Christ compels us.
Since we have reached this conclusion,
if one died for all, then all died.
What the heck does that mean?
Here's what it means.
It says when Christ died on the cross,
our old life died along with him.
Our old life died along with him,
which means this, our old life of sin,
which means that a sin nature died.
Is what if I haven't given
my life to Christ that subs?
Yes.
But what he's saying is he's
conquered it, he's defeated it.
And we had the ability to accept it.
It does not have control of risks today.
We allow to have control over
us, but he says it does not
because he's defeated him.
And Galatians two 20 reminds me of this.
I have been crucified with Christ.
I no longer live, but Christ
lives in me and the life.
I now live in the body.
I live by faith in the son of God
who loved me and gave himself.
And so then it says if he died, Um,
for all so that those who live should
no longer live for themselves, but the
one who died for him and was raised.
And so was Christ was
raised from the dead.
He gave us a new life to live.
Not only do we not, uh, we died as a, as
our old life, but we now have a new life.
And we see that in, in one of my favorite
verses segment, the it's five 17.
He says, therefore, if anyone is
in Christ, he is a new creation.
The oldest passed away
and see the new has.
I think about that verse a lot.
And I look at it and go if, if we're
in Christ, the oldest passed away.
So for some of you seriously,
you, you need to give up the old
of 20, 21, or maybe just the old.
And this is not saying your memories
and those things are important, but
the old life, the old way of living,
it's not valuable for any more crisis
already defeated that, that life
that's just not valuable for you more.
And he's given you a new life.
And if you've given your life to Christ
in the past, and maybe this is just a time
for you to say, I need a new commitment.
I need a fresh start, man.
God is offering that test today.
And this new start is not just
a, and we talk about this a lot.
It's not just saying no
to sin too many times.
Churches preach, say no to sin.
Say no to sin.
No it's saying yes to Jesus.
If you say yes to Jesus more than
you say no to sin noticing happens
all the time, but I'm still people.
Listen, if you consistently say notice.
It's like staring at a cheesecake and
saying, donated, donate it, donate it.
What's going to happen.
I'm going to take a
bite of that cheesecake.
But if I say yes to Jesus, the
cheesecake's left here and I'm
walking that way towards Jesus.
And I'm saying yes to Jesus.
I don't even see the cheesecake.
I don't even smell it anymore
because I'm saying yes to Jesus.
And that's what I love about this first.
The love of Christ compels
us to walk in a new light.
Right.
The fear of the Lord compels us to walk
in a new life and to receive the mercy
and grace and love that he has for us.
Freedom is not holding
you down by your past.
I love that freedom does not
hold you down by your past.
Right.
We are new in 2022 can
be a new life for you.
And for me, So Christ's love
for us, allows us to experience
a new life of new beginnings.
Right?
We can view our life through
the lenses of eternity.
We can view everyone around us.
The way that Christ desires
is to even those who struggle.
We can admit it, right.
We can live free by admitting
our struggles and saying,
Hey, we're not perfect.
I'll tell you I'm not perfect at all.
I was having a conversation
this past week in Oklahoma.
And, uh, it's just this reminder
that too many times we think
we have to live a perfect life.
And it's like, no Christ lived the
perfect life so that we know that we
won't and we can cling on to that.
Now it doesn't mean we just keep living
them perfect life because, oh, we're good.
But it means that don't,
don't beat yourself up.
If you're not hitting the mark,
you know, this is why every day can
be new to us and we can continue
to strive to reflect Christ.
So Christ loves should compel and
motivate us to make resolutions this
year, the reflect the new light that
we have experienced through Christ.
Right.
So it should motivate us through the
fear of the Lord, the love of Christ.
And the last one is the
commission of Christ.
Um, anybody, anybody like being a part
of something bigger than themselves?
Like a mission?
I mean, honestly, isn't that what we are
as a church, like inspiring hope churches
is something bigger than an individual.
We are working together to reach our
city for the love of Christ, right.
To, to reach them, to, to know
Christ and to, to live a life
that is fulfilling, right.
This side of heaven.
And so we are working together to do that.
We'll see Paul again.
And, and so you guys know
I'm not just twisting this.
Paul is literally saying these are
the things I use every day to have a
life that is reflecting Christ, right?
So he fears the Lord and he lets
the love of Christ, motivate him to
live a life worthy of the gospel.
And he lets this mission drive him.
So it's the same thing for
us, the commission of Christ.
And so let's look at verses 18 through 20.
It says this, everything is from
God who has reconciled us to himself
through Christ and has given us
the ministry of reconciliation.
You know, if, if something said in the
Bible, once, you know, especially in
the verses that you're reading, it's
important, but let's keep on reading.
This is, that is in Christ.
God was reconciling the world
to himself, not counting
their trespasses against them.
And he has committed the
message of reconciliation to us.
Hey, guess what is he committed to us?
The message of reconciliation.
God has given us commission to give
this message of reconciliation.
What is reconciliation?
That means something's broken.
A relationship is broken and the message
that we have can heal that relationship.
There is a God in heaven that loves you.
He loves you, and you may have given
your life to him 10 years ago, 20 years.
And your, your relationship can
still at times be broken by just the
way that you've lived and maybe you
haven't ever given your life to Christ.
And you may be wondering, can that
relationship be mended and reconciled?
Absolutely.
100%.
How do you know?
Because the Bible clearly says that
he has given those who've given
their lives to him, that new life to
minister by getting this message of.
That Christ came to this
world, lived a perfect life.
It wasn't an easy life, but a perfect life
and died on a cross for our sin so that we
can accept him and receive the new life.
Right.
The oldest passed away.
The new has come and he's given us
this commission with this message
to not just sit and come to church
every Sunday and say, checkbox.
I made it right.
I made it to heaven.
I'm going to make it to heaven because
I know he's, he's given us this message
for us to take with this as we go,
your most important mission starts.
The moment you leave out of
this, this building today.
And when you come back, it's
a way to share with others,
how that has worked out.
And some, some weeks
we're going to nail it.
We're going to be like, Hey, I got
to share the, what, the ministry
of reconciliation with somebody.
And some weeks you're gonna come
back and say, you know, a flat out.
And this is a place to go,
okay, how do we work on it?
And it's recognizing where we are
understanding our next step setting.
The timeline have been held accountable.
That's the church.
Is that not the church?
It is the church.
So we have not been saved
just from something.
Right.
But we've been saved to something.
And so the calling and commission on
our life from Christ should motivate us
and guide us in our making resolutions.
There is somebody out there this year,
guys, there's somebody out there waiting
on you, waiting on you to say yes to
Jesus, to make godly resolutions and to
say I'm going to be different this year.
I believe every year that I've given
my life to Christ, maybe not every year
by I wrote down resolutions, but I have
thought through things and said, okay,
these are areas I want to be better at.
And sometimes it was
reading the Bible through.
And sometimes I made it.
And if you're anything like me about
March, you've pushed ketchup way too
many times, you just cancel the plan.
Okay.
But then there's been years where I've
made it to the whole Bible and it's
just blown my mind to how big God is.
There's been years where
it's been health challenges.
it's been sharing my faith.
There's been years where it's just been
saying yes to Jesus, any time I was asked
to, but I'll say this I'm a different.
Because of the fear of the
Lord, I'm a different person
because of the love of Christ.
And I'm a different person because of the
commission that God's given me a different
person, not just because of those things,
I'm a different person because I said yes,
because I accepted those things because I
began to live those things out perfectly.
No, no.
Cause if you want to find a perfect
person and a perfect church, you're never
going to find it this side of heaven,
but I'm thankful there was a perfect.
Who sent his son Jesus to live a perfect
life that I can lean on and say, thank
you, Lord, for your grace and your
mercy, that you can take my place.
When I don't meet the mark,
I don't meet that mark.
So reconciliation was
accomplished on the cross, right.
But too many of us try to reconcile
ourselves back to God by our works.
You'll never work yourself to
heaven, tri and you're going
to work yourself to death.
And then one day you're going to go.
I missed that.
All it took was just saying yes and
accepting what God's done for us.
So again, the ministry of
reconciliation God's listed us
and he says this in verse 29.
I love this, this, therefore, we
are ambassadors for Christ since
God is making his appeal through us.
We plead on Christ's behalf
to be reconciled to God.
I started thinking about that as well.
Ambassadors guys, that's a big time.
You see this a lot of times in our
government to be an ambassador is an
honorable thing to be a representative to
another country for really our country.
Right.
So think about for Christ, if we're
representative Christ to the world.
And he says not just to share the message,
but he says, we plead, why do we plead?
Because we also understand
that the judgment is coming
for every single person when.
And I would even say this.
We plead to those who have given the
lives to Christ because we understand
judgments coming to those who don't
live their lives worthy to gun.
We, I want to go before God and
say, I've lived my life out for you.
Here are the things in
which I have done for you.
Not that justify me, but that
says my appreciation to them
is for us to not do anything.
This side of heaven, after
we get our lives to Christ.
It's almost like somebody's
giving us a million bucks.
Somebody's saving our life
and us never saying thank you.
Never, never doing anything to
show our appreciation back to them.
And those are minor things
compared to what God's done for us.
So as we kind of conclude today's
message and just finish up, I want
to kind of summarize this again.
We see how Paul was motivated to make
his sure his ministry and his life was
pure and above reproach, he made sure
his life in his ministry was pure and
above reproach because through again,
the fear of the Lord, the love of
Christ and the commission of Christ,
but what's the take home for us, right?
What's the take home for us.
We can use those same things to motivate
us and our resolutions, whatever you go
home today, and you may write it down
and you may think through whatever.
How do you make sure that you make
the most of 20, 22 is by looking at
these same things loud, the fear of
the Lord to motivate you, to make godly
resolutions, a lot of the love of Christ
and what he has done for you, motivate
you to make godly resolutions, allow
the commission of Christ that he's given
to no one else, but us in this room.
And so you may ask this question, but
can't, can't he do it and can't he do it.
And if they do it, don't.
Now imagine a football team saying,
Hey, the kickers and the only one
that's going to win this football game.
The rest of us are going
to sit on the sidelines.
We'd laugh right now.
They all got to work together.
We all got to work together to take this
message of reconciliation to the world.
So you may have not ever even
thought of resolutions as a big deal.
Maybe you just avoid them altogether.
Right?
But these commitments are important
for us to make not only every new
year, but every day to the Lord.
So a couple of things for you to
think through as we have the seven
visitation, what's the purpose of
imitation it's for us to just take time
to ask God, God, what'd you teach me.
Um, if you're anything like me, I sat
here listening to myself, probably
about fell asleep while I was preaching.
So that may be where you are, but for the
rest of you, maybe you're thinking, okay,
God, what is it that you would want me?
One thing that you would want me to
focus on this year for some of you, it
could just be a relationship with Jesus.
I don't know if you've
given your life to Jesus.
I don't even know if you have
questions about what it means
to give your life to Jesus.
And if you do, please,
please, I compel you.
I urge you to come talk with me
during, during this time of the song.
I'll be in the back.
But even after that, I'll be
at the next type of table.
Let's talk about what that means to
take a next step to follow Jesus.
Maybe it's just answering a few
more questions for some of you.
It could be meaning
giving your life to him.
What does it mean to
give your life to Jesus?
What's that going to change for 2022.
I'll tell you this, the weight and the
burdens maybe that you have in your life
will be removed, that you'll receive hope
and mercy and grace and forgiveness for
anything and everything you've ever done.
You may say, well, I don't need that.
I'm a good person.
Okay, great.
Maybe you are a good person, but
then you're missing out on one.
The opportunity that God gives
you, not just to be a good person.
That's not good.
It's called to speak.
It's called us into a
relationship with him.
And as we grow in that relationship and
the more we know God, the more that we
recognize we are missing the greatest
part, the greatest part of our life, this
side of heaven is to have a relationship
with the God that created you.
I don't know about you guys.
I want that.
I want that we're missing
the greatest part.
When we refuse to have a relationship
with the God that created us.
And as we get to know that God will
realize how good we're not and how
much better we could be through.
But there's some of you that's already
given your life to Christ and you're
saying, what is 2022 mean to me?
I'm just telling you guys, please,
please commit to being a part of
the ministry of reconciliation.
Be a part of what inspiring
hope aspires to be, to inspire
people, to discover hope in Jesus.
And they extended version of
that is to inspire people, to
discover their purpose in life,
through a relationship with Jesus.
I believe every person in this room,
I believe every person in this city
has a purpose to define from God
that is God is waiting for you.
And for those to accept it
and begin to live it out.
And when you do, when you do it may
not mean you move from Oklahoma.
It could just mean you go from your front
door to your neighbor's front door and
you knock on it and you bring them a meal.
It may mean at your job.
You actually have conversations
with people and you ask
how you can pray for them.
It may be you just living your life
out for Christ in such a way that
people ask how, how could you live
in this situation and have this
joy again, joy is not based upon.
It's based upon the presence
of the Lord in your life.
I promise you this.
So you'll say yes to Jesus.
You'll make a resolution that's
godly that aligns with the fear
of the Lord and the love of Christ
and the commission of Christ.
I promise you it'll change your life
and you'll look back and you'll say
20, 22 may have not been perfect, but
it was a year that defined my life.
It could define everybody's life,
whether you choose to accept it.
So as we pray, and as we sing,
you want to talk about what it
means to give your life to Christ.
If you want to talk about what
it means to take a next step,
come talk to me in the back.
I'm talking to me at the next
steps table after service.
Um, I want to be here to help you in that.
Um, so let's pray, Lord Jesus,
we thank you Lord for who you are
and we thank you for your word.
And we thank you for the things
that you've given us Lord as
guiding, um, pieces in our life,
Lord, to live a life that reflects.
To those around us Lord, but also
just, um, uh, benefits our life Lord.
And so I just pray Lord that if there
is anything in this message, Lord
that spoke to a person in this room
or that they will take it and they
will begin to apply it to the lives
Lord and begin to live it out in a way
that honors you and Lord in a way that
changes someone else's life around them.
Lord, I pray again, if there's someone
in this room that doesn't know you,
um, Lord that today, maybe the day
that they nail it down or maybe
that's their 20, 22 resolution, is
that they give their lives to you.
And they begin to grow
in that relationship.
And maybe their lives
changed because of it.
And Lord, if it is, I
pray that they move today.
Lord, if it's during the song to
come back and talk to me, or if it's
after service, Lord, I pray that they
come and ask questions about what it
means to follow you, Lord, because
that is the greatest resolution
anyone can make is to commit to you.
And so Lord, we love you and
we thank you for who you.